Add the AS4 updated docs for Deployment, Monitoring, and API (#6863)
apollographql/apollo-server: docs/source/api/apollo-server.mdx

> This API reference documents the `ApolloServer` class.

Reviewer: I wonder if we can come up with a little more to say here. (Also "This API reference documents" seems a little weird.) Like just saying that this is the main thing you use to build your server, that you're expected to start it and connect it to a web framework (or use startStandaloneServer), etc. Could also be a reasonable place to remind folks that this comes from `@apollo/server` (and that any ApolloServer you've found in a package starting with `apollo-server` is AS3 or older).

Author: This is such a great point! I elaborated on this a bit and added a plug for the "Getting Started" guide:

>This article documents the `ApolloServer` class from the `@apollo/server` package. You can use the `ApolloServer` class to create an instance of Apollo Server that you can then pass to a web framework integration function (e.g., `startStandaloneServer` or `expressMiddleware`). 
>
> > Check out our [Getting Started](../getting-started) guide for an example of setting up Apollo Server!

### Example

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
import { ApolloServer } from '@apollo/server';

const server = new ApolloServer({
	typeDefs,
	resolvers,
});
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

> ### Options

Reviewer: I really do wish we didn't end up with side-scrolling even on reasonably-sized displays. Maybe there's another approach we can take to this information that isn't a two column table? Something a bit more `<dt><dd>`ish?

Author: I think I'm going to add this to my TODO list post-merging this PR if that sounds okay to you. I'll experiment and find a better way to display this info, but I'd rather merge this PR first then come back and iterate later.

##### `typeDefs`

> `String`, `DocumentNode`, or `Array<DocumentNode>`

Author: Thank you so much for explaining the difference! 🧠

</td>
<td>

A valid [Schema Definition Language](../schema/schema/#the-schema-definition-language) (SDL) string, document, or documents that represent your server's GraphQL schema. To generate documents, you can apply the `gql` tag (from [`graphql-tag`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphql-tag)) to valid SDL strings.

> **Required** unless you provide [`schema`](#schema).

Reviewer: This "required" thing isn't quite true — `gateway` is also an alternative. (And is not documented at all! Note that when documenting `gateway` there's a bit of a tension between "`gateway` is an option that lets you define a dynamic schema that changes over time and also unrelatedly lets you override how execution works" and "`gateway` is the option for integrating with Apollo Gateway". I think it's probably fair to document it as the latter.)

The fact that there are three different approaches to providing a schema (`gateway` for a dynamic schema probably Apollo Gateway, `schema` for a schema you've already constructed, and `typeDefs`/`resolvers` as a shorthand powered by `@graphql-tools/schema`'s `makeExecutableSchema` function), of which you must choose exactly one, perhaps deserved a bit of text before the table.

And I would put those four options in their own section separate from the rest of "schema options". Maybe "specifying a schema" vs... I dunno... "GraphQL options"? Not sure what the best word for "options that control GraphQL parsing, validation, and execution" would be.

Author: 1. I updated both the `typeDefs` and `resolvers` options to say they are required unless you specify a `schema` or a `gateway`. 
2. Added the `gateway` option (don't know how that slipped through the cracks 😅)
3. I grouped `typeDefs`, `resolvers`, `schema`, and `gateway` all into one section (which I think makes this whole section a lot clearer from the get-go). I like calling this section `Specifying a schema`, too! 

I feel like the difference between `schema`, `gateway` , or `typeDefs`/`resolvers` is pretty clear with grouping this schema-specifying section together.  Let me know what you think!

A map of functions that populate data for individual schema fields. Can also be an array of multiple maps that are merged.

> **Required** unless you provide a [`schema`](#schema) or a [`gateway`](#gateway).

Reviewer 2: AS will actually work with `typeDefs` only and no resolvers - they will just be the default resolvers (i.e. whatever the name of the field is must have a matching property on the incoming parent value).

Just about any _useful_ schema will have resolvers implemented, though, so it's not terrible to leave as is. Technically, this is incorrect though.

```ts
interface ApolloServerOptionsWithTypeDefs<TContext extends BaseContext>
  extends ApolloServerOptionsBase<TContext> {
  // These two options are always only passed directly through to
  // makeExecutableSchema. (If you don't want to use makeExecutableSchema, pass
  // `schema` instead.)
  typeDefs: IExecutableSchemaDefinition<TContext>['typeDefs'];
  resolvers?: IExecutableSchemaDefinition<TContext>['resolvers'];
  gateway?: undefined;
  schema?: undefined;
}
```

Author: That is an excellent point! I think we can split the difference here with a sentence like:

> While technically optional, if you are providing `typeDefs`, it is strongly recommended that you provide `resolvers` as well.

Reviewer 2: I like it!

<tr>
<td>

##### `schema`

`Object`
</td>

<td>

> An executable GraphQL schema. You usually don't need to provide this value, because Apollo Server generates it from [`typeDefs`](#typedefs) and [`resolvers`](#resolvers).

Reviewer 2: It's a little weird to say it this way. `schema` is really just a more flexible approach than what AS typeDefs + resolvers provides. A few reasons why they might use it include:
* subgraph using `buildFederatedSchema`
* they encountered a limitation with the typeDefs + resolvers approach (`makeExecutableSchema` has a number of options which they might find useful that we don't pass through)
* they've taken a code-first approach rather than schema-first
* they need to perform additional transformations on their schema after creating it

Author: Great points. I added your list and tweaked the phrasing as follows:

> An executable GraphQL schema. Under the hood, Apollo Server automatically generates this field from [`typeDefs`](#typedefs) and [`resolvers`](#resolvers).
>
>This field is helpful if you are using:
> - [Apollo Federation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/implementing-services/#generating-a-federated-schema), which uses the `buildFederatedSchema` function to generate its schema 
> - A function like `makeExecutableSchema` function from [`graphql-tools`](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/generate-schema) to create your schema.
> - A code-first approach (i.e., instead of a schema-first approach).

Reviewer 2: 👍

> ##### `cache`

Reviewer: Not really sure what category this falls into tbh.  It would be a stretch but maybe lifecycle to put it with plugins.

> 

Reviewer: I would probably rename "Networking options" to "Transport options" or "Protocol options", and move persistedQueries into it.

Author: I like `Protocol options`! Did this and moved `persistedQueries` in.

</td>
<td>

> By default, the [CSRF prevention](../security/cors#preventing-cross-site-request-forgery-csrf) feature is enabled to protect Apollo Server from CSRF and XS-Search attacks. This feature requires that clients sending operations via `GET` or multipart upload requests _must_ include a non-empty `Apollo-Require-Preflight` (or another non-special-cased) header in that request. 

Author: I see what you mean. How does the below feel (in terms of providing them with _enough_ context while still pushing them towards the CORS article if they need more):

> By default, the [CSRF prevention](../security/cors#preventing-cross-site-request-forgery-csrf) feature is enabled to protect Apollo Server from CSRF and XS-Search attacks. 
>
>This feature can prevent certain GET requests from executing GraphQL operations if those requests don't specify [certain headers](http://localhost:8000/security/cors/#why-use-cors). You can configure the headers that allow operation execution by passing a configuration object to this option (e.g., csrfPrevention: { requestHeaders: ['special-header'] }).
>
>If your server has clients that send `GET` requests and those clients **aren't** one of Apollo's client libraries (Web, iOS, Kotlin), you might need to modify the configuration of those clients to use this feature. For more details, see [the CSRF prevention documentation](../security/cors#preventing-cross-site-request-forgery-csrf).
>
> You can disable this recommended security feature by passing `false` to `csrfPrevention`.

> By default, the [CSRF prevention](../security/cors#preventing-cross-site-request-forgery-csrf) feature is enabled to protect Apollo Server from CSRF and XS-Search attacks. This feature requires that clients sending operations via `GET` or multipart upload requests _must_ include a non-empty `Apollo-Require-Preflight` (or another non-special-cased) header in that request. 

Reviewer 2: A couple code fences missing (one GET and the object example) but the rest looks good!

</td>
<td>

> Controls whether to allow [Batching Queries](../workflow/requests/#batching) in a single HTTP Request. Defaults to `false`. If a request comes in formatted as an array rather than as a single request object, an error will be thrown.

Author: I will the error, great idea. I think I'll just add the message to the end of this sentence though, so folks can search and find their error and read the rest to understand why this is happening:

> Controls whether to allow [Batching Queries](../workflow/requests/#batching) in a single HTTP Request. Defaults to `false`. If a request comes in formatted as an array rather than as a single request object, an error will be thrown ( i.e., `Operation batching disabled.`).

> Controls whether to allow [Batching Queries](../workflow/requests/#batching) in a single HTTP Request. Defaults to `false`. If a request comes in formatted as an array rather than as a single request object, an error will be thrown.

Reviewer 2: Sounds great. I'd also add:
>an error will be thrown ( i.e., `Operation batching disabled.`) _unless batching is enabled_.

</td>
<td>

An array of [plugins](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins) to install in your server instance. Each array element can be either a valid plugin object or a zero-argument function that _returns_ a valid plugin object.

> In certain cases, Apollo Server installs some of its built-in plugins automatically (for example, when you provide an Apollo Studio API key with the `APOLLO_KEY` environment variable). For details, see the API references for these plugins: [usage reporting](/apollo-server/plugin/usage-reporting/), [schema reporting](/apollo-server/plugin/schema-reporting/), and [inline trace](/apollo-server/plugin/inline-trace/).

Author: Great plug, I tweaked the phrasing slightly to:
> You can _also_ add plugins to your server before you start it using the [`addPlugin`](#addplugin) method.

</td>
<td>

An array of [plugins](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins) to install in your server instance. Each array element can be either a valid plugin object or a zero-argument function that _returns_ a valid plugin object.

> In certain cases, Apollo Server installs some of its built-in plugins automatically (for example, when you provide an Apollo Studio API key with the `APOLLO_KEY` environment variable). For details, see the API references for these plugins: [usage reporting](/apollo-server/plugin/usage-reporting/), [schema reporting](/apollo-server/plugin/schema-reporting/), and [inline trace](/apollo-server/plugin/inline-trace/).

Reviewer: oh, we also install the default landing page by default

Author: Added a link!

<tr>
<td>

##### `includeStacktraceInErrorResponses`

`boolean`
</td>

<td>

> If `true`, stack traces are included in GraphQL responses when errors occur. 

Reviewer: `true` isn't showing up properly, I think maybe you need a blank line before this

Author: Great catch!

</td>
<td>

If this is set to any string value, use that value instead of the environment variable `NODE_ENV` for the features whose defaults depend on `NODE_ENV` (such as [`introspection`](#introspection)). Note that passing the empty string here is equivalent to running with the `NODE_ENV` environment variable unset. This is primarily meant for testing the effects of the `NODE_ENV` environment variable.
</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## `start`

The async `start` method instructs Apollo Server to prepare to handle incoming operations.

> > Call `start` **only** if you are using a framework integration for a non-"serverless" environment (e.g., [`expressMiddleware`](./express-middleware)).

Author: You are right, we don't!

2. Your server calls all of the [`serverWillStart` handlers](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins-event-reference/#serverwillstart) of your installed plugins. If any of these handlers throw an error, `start` throws an error.

## `addPlugin`
You can use the `addPlugin` method to add plugins before your server is started. This is helpful when you want to add a plugin that accepts your initialized `ApolloServer` instance itself, like so:

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  plugins: [
    makeFirstPlugin(),
  ],
});

server.addPlugin(makeSecondPlugin(server));
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

## `assertStarted`

Framework integrations should call `server.assertStarted()` to ensure a server has started before accepting requests. See [Building integrations](../integrations/building-integrations) for more details.

## `stop`

`ApolloServer.stop()` is an async method that tells all of Apollo Server's background tasks to complete. Specifically, it:

- Calls and awaits all [`drainServer` plugin handlers](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins-event-reference/#drainserver). These should generally:
  - Stop listening for new connections

>   - Closes idle connections (i.e., connections with no current HTTP request)
>   - Closes active connections whenever they become idle
>   - Waits for all connections to be closed

Reviewer 2: I think the verbs here should match the plural "these" from "these should generally:"
```suggestion
  - Close idle connections (i.e., connections with no current HTTP request)
  - Close active connections whenever they become idle
  - Wait for all connections to be closed
```

</td>
<td>

If this is set to any string value, use that value instead of the environment variable `NODE_ENV` for the features whose defaults depend on `NODE_ENV` (such as [`introspection`](#introspection)). Note that passing the empty string here is equivalent to running with the `NODE_ENV` environment variable unset. This is primarily meant for testing the effects of the `NODE_ENV` environment variable.
</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## `start`

The async `start` method instructs Apollo Server to prepare to handle incoming operations.

> > Call `start` **only** if you are using a framework integration for a non-serverless environment (e.g., [`expressMiddleware`](./express-middleware)).

Reviewer: Thought: maybe we should encourage a naming convention for serverless integrations that somehow starts with `start`, like `startAndCreateLambdaHandler()`.

That way the advice can be that you *always* should be typing the word `start` somewhere: either in a function name like `startStandaloneServer`/`startAndCreateLambdaHandler` or in `.start()`.  So there are three kinds of integration functions:

* (a) async functions that `await s.start()` like `startStandaloneServer`
* (b) sync functions that `s.startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests()` like `startAndCreateLambdaHAndler()`
* (c) sync functions that call `s.assertStarted()` like `expressMiddleware`

Author: I think this is a great idea! This seems like it would belong more in the "Building integrations" article than the API reference, though. I'll add this to my todo list for after this PR gets merged :)

> * If you're using a serverless framework integration (such as Lambda), you **shouldn't** call this method before passing your server into the integration function. Your serverless integration function will take care of starting your server for you.
>
> * If you're using `startStandaloneServer` you do **not** need to start your server before [passing it directly to `startStandaloneServer`](./standalone).

Always call `await server.start()` *before* passing your server into your integration function and starting to accept requests:

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
const server = new ApolloServer<MyContext>({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
});
await server.start();

app.use('/graphql',
  cors<cors.CorsRequest>(),
  json(),
  expressMiddleware(server),
);
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

This allows you to react to Apollo Server startup failures by crashing your process instead of starting to serve traffic.

> If you are testing your server using [`executeOperation`](../testing/testing/) (i.e., you're not actually starting an HTTP server), you still need to call `start()` because `executeOperation` will *not* do that for you.

Reviewer: That's not true; for convenience in testing, `executeOperation` does call `start` for you.

Author: So, in the Integration Testing article, we say:

> If you are using the `startStandaloneServer` function, you don't need to start your server before calling `executeOperation`. The server instance will start automatically and throw any startup errors. If you are using an Apollo Server integration (e.g., `expressMiddleware`), you do need to start your server before calling the `executeOperation` method.

...which makes no sense, because you are right; we don't need to call `start` on the server, so my bad! I'll fix this here and in the integration testing article.

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
const server = new ApolloServer<MyContext>({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
});
await server.start();

app.use('/graphql',
  cors<cors.CorsRequest>(),
  json(),
  expressMiddleware(server),
);
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

This allows you to react to Apollo Server startup failures by crashing your process instead of starting to serve traffic.

If you are testing your server using [`executeOperation`](../testing/testing/) (i.e., you're not actually starting an HTTP server), you don't need to call `start()` because `executeOperation` will do that for you.

### Triggered actions

The `start` method triggers the following actions:

1. If your server is a [federated gateway](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/managed-federation/overview/), it attempts to fetch its schema. If the fetch fails, `start` throws an error.
2. Your server calls all of the [`serverWillStart` handlers](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins-event-reference/#serverwillstart) of your installed plugins. If any of these handlers throw an error, `start` throws an error.

> ## `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests`

Reviewer: Be explicit that unlike `start`, this is not an async method and you do not have to await it; the tradeoff is that errors happen in the background and cannot be immediately handled.

**Serverless** integrations handle starting an Apollo Server instance in the background by calling the `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests` method. See [Building integrations](../integrations/building-integrations#ensure-successful-startup) for more details.

This method [triggers the same actions](#triggered-actions) as the `start()` method.

> ## `executeHTTPGraphQLRequest`

Reviewer: This should probably move lower, next to `executeOperation` and after all the lifecycle methods. Probably should note that this is the main entry point for web framework integrations.

1. If your server is a [federated gateway](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/managed-federation/overview/), it attempts to fetch its schema. If the fetch fails, `start` throws an error.
2. Your server calls all of the [`serverWillStart` handlers](/apollo-server/integrations/plugins-event-reference/#serverwillstart) of your installed plugins. If any of these handlers throw an error, `start` throws an error.

## `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests`

> **Serverless** integrations handle starting an Apollo Server instance in the background by calling the  `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests` method. See [Building integrations](../integrations/building-integrations#ensure-successful-startup) for more details. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Serverless** integrations handle starting an Apollo Server instance in the background by calling the `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests` method. See [Building integrations](../integrations/building-integrations#ensure-successful-startup) for more details.
```

> This method [triggers the same actions](#triggered-actions) at the `start()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method [triggers the same actions](#triggered-actions) as the `start()` method.
```

The `executeOperation` method takes two arguments:
* The first argument is an object describing the GraphQL operation to be executed.
  * Supported fields are listed in the table below.

> * The second optional argument is used as the operation's [context value](../data/resolvers/#the-context-argument).

Reviewer: Note that it's "optional" in the sense that you should pass it if your server expects a context value, and you should only leave it out if your server only expects the default empty `{}` as context value.

Author: How does this feel for explaining that:

> The second optional argument is used as the operation's [context value](../data/resolvers/#the-context-argument). Note, this argument is only optional if your server _doesn't_ expect a context value (i.e., your server uses the default context because you didn't explicitly provide another one).

> Below are the available fields for the first argument of `executeOperation`:

Reviewer: You can also include `extensions` and `http`. `http` has the same structure as the main option to `executeHTTPGraphQLRequest`. These are generally only interesting if you have a plugin that looks at those fields on `requestContext.request`.

Author: Do you happen to know what the `extensions` field is used for? I couldn't find a clear answer in the `GraphQLRequest` interface, and I'm not sure where else to look for more info on that field.

Reviewer 2: `extensions` is an object of arbitrary data that can be used to pass information along from one touch point to another. It's effectively a context object but the scope is usually meant to be much smaller (generally pertaining to the object the `extensions` object is attached to).

Author: @trevor-scheer How does this feel for an explanation of `extensions`:

> The `extensions` object is usually used to pass information within your server from one touch point to another (e.g., from a request to a plugin).

</tr>

> </tbody>

Reviewer: Missing docs for:
- `startInBackgroundHandlingStartupErrorsByLoggingAndFailingAllRequests`
- `executeHTTPGraphQLRequest`
- The `cache` and `logger` readonly fields

Author: Added sections for all four of these!

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

##### `extensions`

`object`
</td>
<td>

> The `extensions` object is usually used to pass request metadata within your server from one touch point to another (e.g., from a request to a plugin) during the lifecycle of a request.

Reviewer: This is generally true about `extensions` in the system in general, but in this specific case it's just supposed to represent request extensions sent in the actual request. (Which we don't currently document in https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/v4/workflow/requests/ ...)

</td>
<td>

> The `extensions` object is usually used to pass information within your server from one touch point to another (e.g., from a request to a plugin). 

Reviewer 2: Fine as-is, this is a little more specific if you like it:

```suggestion
The `extensions` object is usually used to pass request metadata within your server from one touch point to another (e.g., from a request to a plugin) during the lifecycle of a request.
```
